So, it's Dessert Week,
so I thought I'd make
some of my
favourite puddings for you.
-So excited.
-Oh, good.
-What about this, a cheesecake?
-That stinks. What's that made from?
It's a cheesecake so it's made of Stilton.
Right.
You got anything else?
Yeah, I have. What about this then?
Is this underwear?
Yeah, it's a knickerbocker glory.
-I don't think so.
-Oh, man.
You're taking these recipes
a bit too literally.
-Can I tempt you with my spotted dick?
-I don't wanna see that.
Fair enough.
Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
Is this why Paul
was limping around earlier?
-[Noel] Now…
-I'm pooing myself.
…it's Dessert Week.
I'm so excited I've brought my own spoon.
[Alison] I've brought my own spoon.
[laughter]
[Noel] The bakers face
a wobbly signature bake.
It's jiggly, she's jiggly.
[Noel] A race against time
in the technical.
-[Matty] These are gonna be raw.
-Gonna be right on the buzzer.
[Noel] And it's bombes away
in the showstopper.
You don't make
meringue bombes every day, do ya?
No, there's a reason for that.
They're hard.
[Noel] Whose dessert-making skills
will desert them…
Oh, my gosh. What have I done?
…when it comes to the crunch?
That is disgusting.
These are inedible.
[opening theme music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
Oh, my gosh, it's mad. Week seven.
It's been like a life journey. [laughs]
The impostor syndrome
has kicked in massively.
When my name's not called to go,
I've been quite surprised.
I spend my time seeing,
"Did they look at me yet
or are they avoiding it
'cause they've gotta say my name?"
"Or have they looked at me, like,
get ready, you're going?" [laughs]
[Josh] Star Baker last week.
That was really special.
I'm still running through it,
even a week later.
I like dessert, I like anything sweet,
anything savoury, every food.
[Saku laughs]
This week is hard.
It's gonna be dramatic for sure.
Enjoyable to watch.
[chuckling] Not enjoyable to do.
Hello, bakers, welcome back to the tent.
It's Dessert Week and I'm so excited
I've brought my own spoon.
I'm so excited as well.
I've brought my own spoon. Check this out.
[Noel and Prue laughing]
I can't wait.
What are they making?
[Alison] The judges would like you to bake
a batch of eight exquisite
crème caramels. Mmm.
Your crème caramels should consist
of a beautifully set baked custard
with a caramel sauce.
Now, you've only got two hours
and 45 minutes.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake.
[laughs]
Do you know, a crème caramel is just cold
and it's gelatinous. It's gross.
[Josh] I love crème caramels.
You want it to be lovely to eat
and melt in the mouth.
[Cristy] Very retro.
It reminds me of being young.
Everything was very br… brown.
Crème caramel, you may remember
when you were a kid.
It's basically,
you get a beautiful caramel on the top,
falling down the side
of a silky smooth, set custard.
Baking a perfect custard is really tricky.
When it's perfectly baked,
it will be just set.
It wobbles like a jelly.
If it overbakes,
it gets little holes in it
and becomes stodgy and rock hard.
[Paul] They can introduce flavour
into the caramel or custard,
but the caramel has to be the star.
You want it golden brown.
If it's too pale,
you're not gonna taste it.
If you go to the black stage,
then it's gonna taste burnt.
My mother used to make absolutely
perfectly baked custard
which her mum had taught her.
Took me a long time to learn that.
-[Paul] Hi.
-[Dan] Good morning.
Tell us all about your crème caramel.
I am doing the aromatic flavours
of a Thai green curry.
-Ooh.
-Good lord.
-What are you thinking? Why?
-[Dan] What I'm thinking, it's--
[Alison] He's changing up the game, babes.
[Prue] It sounds interesting.
[Noel] Dan's Thai-inspired crème caramels
will be flavoured with coriander root,
galangal, lemongrass and lime.
But how's the sweetness gonna work
with the tang, spice…
I've worked hard with getting
the amount of aromatics in there
because if you put too much in,
it becomes bitter.
[Prue] It sets, does it?
It's not on the firm side.
It's just on the nice--
-On the wobble.
-On the wobbly side.
-I like it.
-[Alison] On the Alison side.
-Yes.
-[laughs]
[Matty] We've got eight tea bags
for 800 grams of coconut milk
and 200 grams of milk.
That's, kind of,
just gonna be left to infuse for a while.
[Dan] I've put in some lemongrass
and I'm putting in some galangal.
It's from the ginger family.
[Alison] Whatever flavours
the bakers use,
they'll need to strike
a perfect balance…
-Have I worried you?
-Yeah.
-[laughing] In a good way or a bad way?
-[Paul] Bad.
[Alison] …or risk overpowering
the dish's classic caramel flavour.
[Tasha] It's rosemary that I've brought
from my mum's garden.
Rosemary's an interesting one.
'Cause you go slightly over,
it becomes medicinal.
Or you think of a roast.
It's trying to find that balance.
How did you know you'd reached
the right amount of rosemary?
Wing it.
[all laugh]
She flies by the seat of her pants.
Right. I trust you, Tash.
[Alison] Tasha's rosemary infused custard
will be sandwiched between a honey caramel
and fig compote.
-[Noel] Dessert Week, yes or no?
-Yes. I say no to crème caramel.
[Noel] Ah.
[Tasha] You seen the challenge videos
on YouTube?
-No.
-People have to inhale them
without their hands,
suction them into their mouths.
[Noel] Oh, no. Not sure about that.
Paul's gonna have to eat a lot.
-Without his hands?
-I'm gonna tie him up.
-I would pay good money to see--
-[Noel] Kinky handcuffs. [laughs]
No, I don't wanna see that. [laughs]
[Noel] It's not just the judges consuming
copious crème caramels.
In practice, I've been doing 12.
[laughs]
When we was waiting to come in,
and everyone was like,
"We're only doing eight."
[laughs]
I'm gonna do 12 anyway.
Hopefully, there's some margin for error.
[Noel] Matty's favourite
eight crème caramels
will feature a custard infused with chai,
coconut and vanilla.
Though, he's not entirely sure why.
[Paul] Why chai?
Do you drink chai a lot in school?
Not particularly.
I'm more of a coffee guy.
So again, why chai?
I wanted to do something with coconut
'cause I like the flavour,
and it marries quite nicely.
-Sounds great.
-Thank you.
Matty, don't… Don't let him upset you.
Every time. [laughs]
-[Paul] Thank you, Matty.
-Thank you. Cheers.
Why did he say that?
Do you think he likes chai?
Good question.
I don't even know if I like chai.
I'm nervous for you now. Good luck.
[both chuckle]
I'm just starting on my caramel.
I'm just looking for a nice,
deep amber colour.
[Alison] Achieving a perfect caramel
means walking a tightrope.
[Matty] It's quite
a temperamental process.
It takes patience
and I've not got much of that.
[Alison] Apply too much heat too quickly,
and it will be ruined.
You need to be really careful.
If you just go 30 seconds over, bitter.
It's just getting the timing right.
-That looks good.
-[Cristy] I feel like that's right.
[Noel] Heat it too slowly…
[Matty] It's taking forever.
[Noel] …and it won't
become caramel at all.
Feels like a bit crystallised.
I might have to redo it.
I'm just gonna redo it.
[Alison] As Matty starts again…
Got the honey going in. Sticky.
…two bakers are taking
a different approach to caramel.
[Tasha] I'm doing a cheat's way
because I'm just using honey.
I'm heating the honey until it's reduced.
[Saku] This is jaggery.
It belongs to the palm family.
We use in Sri Lanka quite a lot.
[Noel] But for Saku,
jaggery involves an extra risk.
[Saku] Jaggery sets harder.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-It's hard to get out of the, er, mould.
What point do you tip it out?
It's still… When it is hot.
If it goes cold, no, it's sticking.
You'd need a chisel and hammer
to get them out.
[Saku and Prue laugh]
[Alison] Using jaggery,
cardamom, and nutmeg,
Saku's crème caramels
will be mini versions
of a popular pudding from her homeland.
I am making
a Sri Lankan dessert, watalappan.
My mum made those at home.
This is one of her favourite.
When I am coming here
every morning, I ring her.
She knows I am making this today.
[Alison] Also infusing
family flavours is Josh.
Crème caramel was my nan's favourite.
And also one of her favourite flavours
was plums and custard.
Know what I love about you?
You always honour your nana.
-I know, yeah.
-So lovely. She'd be proud of you.
[Noel] Josh's cinnamon and orange custard
will be topped with cinnamon spiced plums
and tempered chocolate butterflies
in an attempt to build
on last week's success.
-[Noel] Hello, Star Baker.
-[Josh] Hello.
That was good last week.
-Amazing. I wasn't expecting that.
-That was amazing.
-You've had a handshake?
-Yeah.
-And you've been Star Baker?
Imagine if you win Star Baker again. No?
-I don't know.
-[laughs]
[Tasha] When I practised it, I overdid
the honey and it was rock-solid,
so I wanna get a balance.
I'm gonna put that in my ramekins.
[Cristy] Just gotta do a nice,
thin caramel.
[Tasha] I'm gonna use it all.
It's about two tablespoons.
[Matty] Caramel take two.
I went too slow with it,
so I'm gonna speed up the heat.
I need it to be made now.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Cristy] This is the infused milk
for my custard.
So, I'm just gonna pass it through a sieve
and bring that together with the eggs.
[Josh] The eggs is gonna set it.
[Noel] Achieving the correct balance
between whole eggs and yolks is crucial.
You want your custard
to have a nice wobble,
but not hard like rubber.
[Noel] Not enough whole eggs
and the custard won't set correctly…
Three eggs and four yolks.
Worried it might not set.
…but too many, it will set firm…
[Saku] Eight whole eggs.
[Noel] …and lose the delicate texture
the judges are looking for.
[Saku] It's rich, not hugely thick.
Still wibbly-wobbly in the middle.
[Dan] I'm gonna gently whisk
this mixture into the eggs.
[Noel] It's empty in the tent.
-[Dan] Horrible.
-[Noel] Will you stay in touch?
Yeah. I'm very difficult
to stay in touch with.
I never answer my phone.
Spend two weeks to reply to a text.
Remain a little bit enigmatic
and mysterious.
"Where's Dan gone? No one knows."
-"Is Dan still alive? Nobody knows."
-Nobody knows.
[Noel] Like Bigfoot, there was a sighting.
There was a blurry picture of Dan
leaving like that.
[Noel laughs]
[Cristy] That will pour into my ramekin
on my caramel.
[Dan] Caramel on the bottom,
custard on top.
[Tasha] Gotta make sure
they're all the same amount.
It needs to have
a little water bath around it.
[Tasha] So, the hot water bath
stops the eggs from curdling.
Makes me nervous that everyone
is putting it in the oven
and I'm still making bloomin' caramel.
[Saku] Here we go, 35 minutes.
[Cristy] At 140 for about
30 to 35 minutes.
[Tasha] Be good to me.
I don't get why it's not working.
It feels like it's crystallising again.
We actually have a problem.
So, I'm going again.
And everyone else's are, like, in the oven
and my caramel isn't even cooked.
[Alison] As Matty attempts to conquer
his caramel for the third time…
Can't do anything else
until this is sorted.
…everyone else can turn to their toppings.
I'm gonna make some fig jam.
They were worried about my crème caramels
tasting medicinal.
Maybe I add a bit more sugar.
[Josh] The plums, I'll cut into cubes,
and stew them
with orange juice and cinnamon.
I don't want them to fall apart.
I want them to keep their shape.
[Cristy] Gonna put some orange segments
in some orange liqueur.
Should go still like a citrus tartness,
but sweet as well.
[Noel] With orange decoration
an orange zest
and nutmeg infused custard,
Cristy is hoping her citrus flavours
will impress Paul and Prue.
[Alison] How much has it
taken over your life?
[Cristy] Gosh.
You don't stop practising
or thinking about it,
-you go to bed, having dreams.
-You dream about it as well?
-Yeah. It's mad-- Yeah.
-Really.
What sort of dreams?
Paul going, "It's not good enough."
[both laughing]
How, how simple is that?
It's so annoying.
It's pretty much there, to be fair.
Probably needs longer,
but I'm very conscious of time.
They take 25 to 35 minutes.
So, I'm trying them at 25
and praying to God.
[Alison] Bakers…
…you have…
-…half an hour…
-…left.
That's not good.
That's not good at all.
Don't think it's gonna be ready,
but I'll do a wobble check.
Here we go. [whistles]
[Alison] There's no room for error
when it comes to the bake
of a crème caramel.
[Tasha] They're wobbling.
-Checking the wobble.
-[laughs]
[Alison] Take them out too early…
-[Dan] Hooray. Yeah.
-[Noel] Yeah?
[Alison] …and they could
collapse when demoulded.
[Dan] Got a nice little wobble.
-Oh, yeah.
-[Tasha] Wobbly, but not too wobbly.
[Saku] Wibbly-wobbly.
[scats excitedly]
[Noel] Too long
and they will set too hard,
resulting in a bubbly,
scrambled egg texture.
I think they're nearly there.
I'm gonna give them two minutes.
They've got more than 15 minutes to go.
I wanted them out in the fridge by now.
Not still liquid in the oven.
-Do they take ages to cool down?
-Yeah.
It's all about heating things up
and cooling it down.
-You've simplified this show.
-Baking. You heard it here first.
-Why don't we not do either?
-[laughs]
-We'll be in the same situation we were.
-I'm making a go at it.
[Josh] They've all got a wobble,
so I'll leave them at that.
They've got a slight wobble.
Yeah, they're cooked.
[Tasha] I'm gonna let them cool.
[Cristy] To demould,
need to get them cold.
[Alison] While most of the bakers
are cooling their crème caramels,
that's the last thing Saku wants.
[Saku] Now, I need to turn this out.
[Noel] As the colder hers gets…
[Saku] The jaggery, when it harden,
I can't take it out, it breaks.
[Noel] …the more likely they are
to stick to the moulds.
[Saku] Please come.
[sighing] Ah.
Why it's not happening?
[mould clinking]
Yes!
Yes, it is.
[mould clatters]
Time for some decor.
Which is more caramel, so I can't wait.
[Josh] Butterflies are synonymous
with my nan.
When she was coming towards the end,
she'd say,
"Whenever you see a butterfly around,
that's me watching."
[Alison] That's so beautiful.
It's weird because you don't see
many butterflies any more.
-[Josh] I get loads.
-[Alison] Do you?
With the right plants.
Lots of, er, flowers,
and they like buddleia plants.
Well, I've got, erm, astroturf.
[Alison laughs]
That's where you're going wrong.
It's working first time.
The one where I've got
plenty of time to sort out.
I wanna get some spirals.
[Tasha] I'm doing honeycomb tuiles.
Look, look who's here.
What's he doing here?
He shouldn't be here.
No. He's off, he's off, it's fine.
Like a wild tiger
just sort of milling about. [chuckles]
-When's the zookeeper coming?
-[chuckles] You mean Prue?
[Saku] Looks good, I'm happy.
My mum, I want her to be proud.
They're coming out regardless. [laughs]
Gotta rapidly cool 'em.
[Alison] Noel, tell 'em.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
[Alison] Time is ticking.
You can do this.
-You can.
-We believe in you.
[Noel and Alison laugh]
[sighs] Flipping hell.
[Tasha] We are turning out.
[exhales heavily]
This is the crunch time now.
You don't know
until you demould it, do you?
[sighing] Oh.
This is so stressful.
Ideally, I'd have them in the fridge
for an hour, but here we are.
Got my fingers crossed
for numerous things.
I hate this part.
[Josh] Moment of truth.
[sighs in relief, chuckles]
It's jiggly, she's jiggly.
[Cristy] They've got loads
of little bubbles.
[Dan] They're on the edge of set.
I don't know what they're gonna be like.
I'm very nervous.
Not too bad.
Few more and then I can breathe again.
[Dan] Go, go, go.
That's two.
-[Noel] Hello.
-You're coming in at a demoulding time.
[Noel] I'm like your lucky charm.
-[laughs]
-You're not.
-Please, come out. Threaten it.
-Noel.
You've gotta come back,
you're making me scared.
-Am I?
-No, Noel, go away.
[Tasha] Come on, it's the suction.
-Come back when they're out. No.
-[Noel] I love to watch this bit.
-I'll leave you. There you go.
-Come out.
-Thank you.
-That's 'cause I went to leave.
[laughs] I know.
[Dan] You bugger.
I've had a collapse.
Donkey. Probably needed
another minute in the oven.
Should've made 12 like Matty.
Let's pick the eight. I like that one.
Bakers, you've got just one minute left.
-[Matty] Better get a move on.
-[Dan] Sticky nuts, I call 'em.
-[Tasha] Bee tuiles.
-[Saku] The tuiles are not artistic.
[Josh] Butterfly sits on top.
[Cristy] Tried my best.
That's all you can do.
Bakers, your time is up.
What a horrible challenge.
Please step away from your crème caramels.
Well done, kids, well done.
It's in the flavour and the tasting.
That was so stressful.
I weren't expecting to get 'em out.
[both laugh]
[Noel] It's time for the bakers'
signature crème caramels
to face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
-Hello, Dan.
-Hello.
These are my
Thai green curry-inspired crème caramels.
-Don't say curry.
-[Dan] Okay.
-Just Thai. Thai.
-Don't say curry.
-Thai-inspired…
-It's bonkers.
-Have you got curry in there?
-No.
-[laughs]
-It's intriguing though, isn't it?
[Prue] It's got the wobble, which I love.
[Paul] You're suffering
from a slight underbake.
-I am.
-[Paul] That one looks desperate, Dan.
[Paul and Dan laugh]
[Prue] I love that texture.
That's beautiful. It really is.
You've got your flavours spot on.
The lemongrass makes that.
It's very nearly perfect.
Doesn't look perfect
because they're collapsed.
But that flavour is lovely.
-Great, thank you.
-You've invented a dessert, Dan.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
The texture on the side is pretty bad.
I mean, it's bubbled up quite badly.
And that's because you left
them in the oven too long. Bit overcooked.
-[Paul] That's boiled inside.
-[Cristy] Gosh.
At the moment, the orange is there,
but the caramel isn't.
-They're too solid. That's the big issue.
-Okay. [sighing] Okay.
[Prue] They look interesting.
I was worried about
you making caramel with honey.
-Could it have been thicker?
-[Tasha] Yeah.
There's a swimming pool of sweetness.
It needs to be on the top, really.
[Prue] That is a beautiful set.
Smooth as anything.
The fig comes through,
the rosemary's barely there.
But the flavour,
it's lacking a little bit of direction.
I think using honey
was such a lovely idea.
But everything is too sweet.
Okay. Thank you.
They're so pretty.
They're almost identical.
And your jaggery seems to have worked.
It's nice and evenly shiny.
-It's very sweet, which I expected.
-[Saku] Yes.
Cardamom comes through beautifully,
but it's too thick.
[Prue] How many eggs?
-Eight.
-Eight whole eggs?
-[Saku] Yeah.
-[Prue] That could be the problem.
-You've got too much egg white.
-Okay. Yeah.
Straight off, they look very, very pretty
and there's a lot of finesse to this.
But there's a lot of bubbles
in there on the side.
They're slightly overbaked.
The spiced plum and the orange together,
the taste in that is delicious
with the sweetness level just so.
Because the plums are not as cooked
as I'd expected and that's rather nice.
They've got freshness of fresh fruit.
Just the texture's slightly off.
It is overbaked, but you can't
get over the flavour of that.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Well done.
They look attractive.
The caramel could've been a bit darker.
The colour's too pale.
-Yeah.
-But they look nice and smooth.
-I love the flavour.
-[Paul] Hmm.
Because the chai flavour's quite strong,
it's interesting. It really works.
But they're probably a little overbaked.
Looks like a frankfurter sausage.
You know, you get the skin--
-You're not selling it. [laughs]
-[Noel] Enough.
-It tastes good, though.
-It tastes delicious.
I keep wanting to go back
for another bite.
-[Pau] Thanks.
-Thanks.
-I'd eat a hotdog crème caramel.
-[laughs]
[Matty] Went all right.
When they was commenting
on the colour of the caramel,
you don't know how lucky you are
to have any caramel. [laughs]
I wouldn't take a risk
unless it was worth taking.
I've created a dessert for myself.
I'm happy I pleased Paul, so… [laughs]
Oh, I'm sad.
It is not silky and smooth.
It is not good for me.
I will be in danger.
[Cristy] It was the bubbles.
The stupid bubbles.
I'm not gonna be
making 'em again. [laughs]
[Alison] The bakers have no idea what
awaits them in the technical challenge.
Hello, bakers, welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your technical challenge.
Today, it's been set for you
by Paul Hollywood.
He's wearing desert boots.
What you think are desert boots
are actually dessert boots.
Made out of a thin layer of trifle.
They're new on the market.
Check those out.
[all laughing]
So, Paul, have you got any
words of advice for our bakers?
This recipe has got
three very distinctive textures.
You've gotta
get them all right for it to work.
[Alison] Judges, you can leave.
No snacks. Remember,
leave some room for dessert, thank you.
[Alison and Noel laughing]
Paul would love you to make six individual
orange and ginger treacle puddings.
Your steamed sponges
should be soft and light
and served with a smooth custard
and a ginger and orange syrup.
You've got an hour and a half
which is plenty of time.
-On your mark…
-[Noel] Get set…
Bake!
I don't know how to make this.
I am following the instructions.
We'll get there.
I've never made anything like this before.
So it's gonna go real well. [laughs]
I love a steamed pudding. It's a proper
rib-sticking pudding, isn't it?
Get it down you.
Paul, this is one of my absolute
favourite puddings. [chuckles]
A proper steamed sponge pudding.
[Paul] Yeah. This has got
a beautiful golden syrup on the top.
Served with crème anglaise,
and then you have
the ginger and the orange syrup.
Let's go through the dangers.
-The killer thing with this is timing.
-Yeah, okay.
They have to crack on with the syrup
that goes on top.
Now, we've allowed 20 minutes
with the syrup, getting it right.
Then they've gotta think of the sponge.
It's critical they get the bake right.
Forty minutes minimum. Forty. Four-zero.
Now of an hour and a half, that doesn't
give you a lot of wriggle room.
-No.
-Who's gonna use their time wisely?
-Would you like to try one, Prue?
-Yes, please.
Then, you have this beautiful syrup.
That with the crème anglaise,
which is beautiful and silky smooth.
The orange, the ginger,
it just blends beautiful together.
It's amazing
because the texture is both very moist
-and yet it's light.
-[Paul] Mmm.
Paul, this is heaven.
I'm looking forward to six more of them.
[laughs] And I'm going to have difficulty
not eating all of this.
[laughs]
Some syrup. "Make the caramel."
With 50 grams of caster sugar
and three tablespoons of water.
Yeah, buzzing for that.
Cannot wait to make more caramel.
I'm mentally scarred. [laughs]
[Noel] You know your way
around a treacle pudding.
No, I do not.
-You're too young.
-Yeah.
-No one eats puddings any more.
-Not steamed ones.
It's like something
from the Victorian era.
[both laugh]
-She's nearly, nearly there.
-[Josh] Carefully pour the boiling water.
Add some lemon wedge and stir
until the mixture comes to the boil.
Simmer to produce a golden syrup.
That's not golden. [sighs]
This will go in the bottom of the sponge,
so I'm gonna get this bad boy syrupy.
This don't look right. It's stuck.
So I assume once it heats up,
it will melt, maybe?
[Alison] What's going down
in the Tash kitchen?
[sighs heavily]
You do this every single time
you have a technical.
I get a massive sigh. What's going on?
I don't understand
why they've asked us to make a caramel,
and then add a load of boiling water.
'Cause it makes it all juicy
when it's in the sponge.
-If I go there, you go here.
-[laughs]
-Let's switch.
-[Alison] I'm assuming.
-I ain't got a clue.
-[laughs]
"Make an orange and ginger sponge batter."
Butter's gone in, caster sugar's gone in,
eggs have just gone in.
Let's do the stem ginger.
[Cristy] No one's gonna want
a big bit of stem ginger.
Chopping this like a nutter.
Grated zest of an orange.
Then I'll fold through my flour.
[Matty] How's everyone making
their sponge? What am I doing wrong?
Oh, it's starting to mix in.
Is it or am I just fooling myself?
I'm fooling myself. It's all to the side.
[Noel] Treacle pudding.
It's not very modern, is it?
-It's from the era of Prue Leith.
-[Noel] It might be more Paul actually.
-'70s stodge. [laughs]
-Yeah, '70s stodge, yeah.
Little 12-year-old Paul
with his blue eyes gleaming.
[in kid's voice] "Mum."
-[in normal voice] A conker in one hand.
-That's it.
A little school bag over his shoulder.
Rushes in.
Eats his treacle pudding. [laughs]
[Saku] I don't know, but it is too runny.
It needs to be
a golden syrup kind of a texture.
[Josh] I don't wanna go on to too many
steps because this is a crucial bit.
I wanna watch this, make sure it's okay.
[Alison] Any delay at this stage
will mean less time to bake.
[Tasha] It's going for ages.
[Alison] With it needing
40 minutes in the oven…
I'm gonna spend a minute
getting this bang on.
…this could prove disastrous.
Put the kettle on.
Bakers, it seems nuts,
but you're halfway through already.
-This is a quick one, isn't it?
-Really.
-I love a quickie.
-I love a… [laughs]
[laughing]
[Josh] I think we're about there.
[Saku] Spoon some syrup into the mould.
It's very pale, but it's gotta go in.
"Divide the sponge batter between moulds."
[Matty] I'm very aware
that this isn't ready yet.
-What have you been doing?
-I know. How's he already there?
Don't look at others.
Just concentrate on yourself.
This is your week.
[both laughing]
Why'd you laugh when I say that?
Next week's your week.
[Dan] Cover with paper and foil.
[Tasha] Can you tell I never did scouts?
It says,
"Steam in a bain-marie in the oven."
[Dan] Right, my little beauties.
[Saku] How long we are baking?
I have no idea how long.
Maybe I'll leave 'em in 25, 30 minutes.
They're only small.
-Do 25 minutes.
-[beeping]
[exhales] 20 minutes.
Yeah, so I've started with the sponge.
Nothing, like, extravagant.
Just creaming the butter,
and then I'll add the sugar.
I have no idea if that syrup
is what it should look like,
so we will find out when they eat it.
[laughing]
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Is that it?
Time is ticking.
[exhales] I'm a bit stressed,
but I shouldn't be. Chill out.
I can make the crème anglaise now.
Looked at the ingredients and went,
"I have done this."
So I'm gonna heat the milk and the cream.
Whisk your egg yolks with your
caster sugar till nice and pale.
Pour over your eggs nice and slowly.
Stir it until it goes thick.
But not that thick.
It has to be pouring consistency, I think.
[Matty] How long
do these things take to steam?
I wanna give that
as long as I can in there.
I don't wanna serve them
anything underbaked.
Serve the puddings
with a jug of ginger and orange syrup.
[Cristy] I've added
the orange juice and the stem ginger.
Reduce to a pouring consistency.
-[Alison] You like technicals?
-[softly] I hate it.
-Why?
-Because, erm,
it is not the full instructions, isn't it?
That's the thing.
If you've never made one…
-It's really hard.
-Shall I tell you
-where you get that knowledge from?
-Yes.
-Just look at everyone else's.
-[laughs]
Don't wanna over reduce this.
Don't want it too loose either.
This is now over reduced.
Ah.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
I should check these,
I'm gonna check this one.
Just take one out,
see how he's looking.
Don't know how I'm gonna tell
they're done 'cause they're covered up.
[Matty] The moment of truth.
[Tasha gasps] It's not done.
[Josh] They're not done.
[Cristy] Think it needs longer.
I don't know, they seem soft.
Turn that oven up. Little bit more.
I think the bain-marie is actually
slowing down the cooking.
Gonna go rogue and stick them in
without the bain-marie.
[mutters in frustration]
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
We're gonna be right on the buzzer,
aren't we?
-[Tasha] It's gonna be a rush job.
-[sighs]
Josh looks a bit scared.
-You gonna be all right.
-[Alison] Five minutes good?
-[laughs]
-[Josh] Gotta get them out.
Not done, but they'll have to be.
[Saku] I'm really scared now.
[Dan] Give me strength, Lord.
[Matty] Horrible feeling,
these are gonna be raw.
[Josh] Oh, dear.
[gasps] Oh, flip, they're raw. Oh.
[gasps]
[Dan] It's a bit uncooked at the top.
[Tasha gasps] No. That one's raw.
[Matty] Oh, wow.
They're so raw.
[Cristy] They can't eat this,
they'll get ill.
Oh, my gosh. What have I done?
Bakers, you have one minute left.
No! [laughing]
[Cristy laughing] Oh, Matty.
[Matty and Cristy laughing]
-This is a car crash.
-[laughs]
I'm not even pouring them.
[Tasha] That one's more cooked.
-[Matty] Do I have to be judged?
-[Saku] Oh.
[Dan] They meant to be raw?
Your time is up.
Oh, my God. [laughing] I can't…
I can't serve that.
[Matty laughing]
[Alison] Please come and place your bakes
behind your photographs
on the gingham table.
[Cristy] They can't eat them.
[Matty] Oh, they're gonna need a straw.
If any of you need a flask…
[Cristy laughing] I can't cope.
[Matty and Saku laughing]
[Noel] The judges are looking
for six impeccable treacle puddings
served with a delicious syrup
and silky custard
and comprising of light, airy,
perfectly steamed sponges.
-[Prue chuckles]
-[laughing]
[laughing]
It's your duty.
That's disgusting.
-Let's start over here.
-[Prue] Those are raw.
-[Paul] These are inedible.
-[Prue] They are.
Crème anglaise is okay. [laughing]
Pouring consistency.
Moving on. Crème anglaise is okay.
Syrup's not bad as well.
-Steamed sponges are inedible.
-[Paul] That's just stodge.
Needed another quarter of an hour
or something.
[Paul] Crème anglaise looks okay.
The syrup looks pretty good as well.
Same problem.
-[Prue] This is worse.
-[Paul] Inedible.
They needed a much longer cooking.
The size of them are terrible.
We actually have something
that's got a bake on it.
Okay, so let's taste this.
[Paul] Flavour's good.
The orange tang coming through nicely.
[Prue] Mmm-hmm.
[Paul] This has some element of a bake.
It's the right consistency.
And it's the right balance
of ginger and orange.
[Paul] Moving on to the last one.
That is terrible.
-I think this is a bit burnt.
-[Paul laughs] Slightly, yeah.
[spoon scraping]
-That's pretty awful. It's just--
-Nil points.
Yeah, nil points.
[Alison] Paul and Prue will now rank
the puddings from worst to least worst.
So in sixth place, we have this one.
-Matty, it's a disaster.
-Oh, it is.
In fifth spot, this one.
-Saku, terrible.
-I know.
[Noel] Fourth is Cristy,
and in third place is Josh.
In second place, we have this one.
-I'm afraid we're still on the terrible.
-I know.
And in first place is this one.
Tash. Not as terrible,
but pretty terrible.
-[Alison laughs]
-[Paul] But, at least, edible.
[chuckles] Thanks.
Anyway, we've all learnt a little bit
about how to make steamed puddings.
At least you're all roughly
on the same level, you know?
That's not a compliment.
[all laughing]
Is this making you feel better?
You've let Prue down, you let me down,
you let yourselves down.
-[Prue laughs]
-Consider yourself roasted.
[all laugh]
I will take that. [chuckles]
A win is a win. [laughs]
[Saku] I'm trying my best.
Because I want to come back.
Went all right. [laughs]
Flashbacks to being at school.
You know, when they're like…
they're worse than angry,
they are so disappointed.
But you gotta laugh. [laughs]
[indistinct chatter]
Dessert Week. It's been a rollercoaster.
I think the technical
was the worst thing I have ever judged.
I think it's up there. I was disappointed.
Judging that was quite difficult.
So I guess we have
to ignore the technical.
The signature, they did okay.
Now you look at Dan,
with that Thai influence there
with his flavours.
-It worked, didn't it?
-It was odd, but it did.
And Matty did okay.
[Paul and Prue] Josh did okay.
[Paul] I think we've got a split.
The girls are in trouble
and the lads are safer.
-I'm devastated.
-Even Tasha?
[Paul] She's middling, but Saku
and Cristy are in a worse position.
It's gonna make
the showstopper exciting.
Some will come out fighting
and some will be demoralised.
-Did I roast them too much?
-No.
-Yes.
-A little bit.
[Alison and Noel laughing]
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
And well done for getting
to the showstopper on Dessert Week
without running away.
There's certainly been no deserters yet,
has there, Noel?
No, but it was touch-and-go yesterday.
[Alison] It certainly was.
So, for your showstopper challenge,
the judges would like you to make
a sharing-size dessert
which is encased within
a highly decorative meringue bombe.
That is a bombe with an "e".
I don't want any explosions in the tent.
I don't want to be picking meringue
out of my barnet all day tomorrow.
That's very true.
You have four hours until we dispose
your bombes by yamming them down.
[laughs] On your marks…
-Get set…
-Bake!
This is the worst challenge yet.
My practice ones have not been successful.
I'm pooing myself.
Biggest challenge
is the meringue bombe itself.
I've done nine million meringues
this week, erm, and two worked.
Lives up to its name of a bombe.
It's a high-risk one.
And potentially the last.
What we're asking for is a meringue bombe.
It looks like a sphere and inside it,
any kind of dessert they like.
[Paul] The meringue itself
is probably going to be French meringue,
because it's stable and it's strong.
So French meringue is essentially
whisked egg whites with sugar.
And getting nice,
hopefully glossy stiff peaks.
-That's what I'm hoping for.
-[Prue] We've asked for a bombe shape,
so we're testing them
on their meringue engineering skills.
The most obvious is to use a mould.
The bakers will do it in two halves.
There's a terrific danger
that they'll crack.
This is Dessert Week,
so we are expecting mousse,
creams, crème diplomats, sponge,
chocolate, anything they wish.
But they must taste
and work amazingly well together.
[Saku] I am making
the choux buns first, vigorously.
[Matty] First thing we're going for
is a génoise sponge.
Once out the oven,
it frees up to be used for the meringue.
Of course, it's someone's last bake.
After the technical challenge,
we are expecting perfection.
We can't have Mr Hollywood
disappointed again.
He gets very bad-tempered
when he's disappointed.
[Prue] Hi, Matty.
-[Paul] Hello, Matty.
-Morning.
Tell us all about your meringue bombe.
Well, I'm hoping to produce something
slightly better than yesterday.
-Baked would be good.
-Something edible.
I thought I'll push the boat out,
do something a bit weird.
Pistachio, strawberry and basil,
a fusion between English
and Italian summer.
[Paul] Nice.
[Noel] A summer sandwich cake
of pistachio crémeux and strawberry
and basil compote and mousse
will sit inside
Matty's French meringue bombe.
I'm concerned about the meringue.
Is it stable?
Icing sugar's also going in.
Makes it more dense,
so hopefully it holds itself.
Seem to know what you're talking about.
But again, what does that mean?
[all laughing]
I've lost all faith.
You've gotta build me back up again.
Yep, yep, stiff peaks.
Gotta do the old Bake Off thing,
haven't I?
[Josh] Gonna put my meringue mixture
into the moulds.
You don't make
meringue bombes every day, do ya?
-No, there's a reason for that.
-[Alison] Why?
-They're hard.
-[both laugh]
[Dan] This is make-or-break.
[Noel] With a spherical shape
and weight of a dessert to support…
I'm literally shaking.
…it's essential the bakers produce
strong meringue shells.
[Josh] It's gotta take quite a weight.
It's a big bombe.
[Alison] Any imperfections
or thin areas now…
[Tasha] Get it as even as possible.
[Alison] …could cause
cracks and weaknesses later.
I've got an extra mould in case
one's cracks are too deep to mend.
[Saku] Oh, I hope
it will come in one piece.
[gasps]
[Saku laughs]
[Dan] My meringue bombe
is the "Pale Blue Dot,"
based on our humble little home,
the Earth.
We're basically suspended in a galaxy,
all our little woes and worries
in the tent
are insignificant in the grand scheme
of the universe.
[Alison] Beneath an Earth's crust
of chocolate génoise,
Dan's trifle consists
of orange crème pat, strawberry bavarois
and his Earth's core of raspberry jelly.
These layers are quite moist.
So are they not going
to make your meringue too soggy?
That's why I've put the sponge
on the outside as a barrier as well.
So I've tried to use
really light mousses and things,
but when I made it,
it was still quite heavy.
-[Prue] Yes.
-And I think my big pie fingers…
I need to be delicate
with the moving around.
What you gonna do with your big fingers?
I need to turn these into patisserie
delicate fingers. I struggle with that.
-[Paul] Good luck, sounds good.
-Thanks.
[Noel] While Dan gets on
with his blue dot…
Just piped Macclesfield,
glorious Cheshire. [chuckles]
…Josh's aim is fixed
on a small green ball.
So summer months, I love to watch
Wimbledon and play a bit of tennis.
And I've got homegrown strawberries
off the garden.
Strawberries and cream, the flavours.
It's a match made in heaven.
[Alison] Within his tennis-themed bombe,
Josh will be serving up his cheesecake
of mascarpone whipped cream
with a touch of champagne,
sandwiched by layers
of strawberry mousse and strawberry jam.
[Josh] It's gonna be the green ball.
I'm gonna put tennis balls,
tennis rackets, strawberries on there.
I'm going in.
I think I can fit both at the same time.
[Dan] Meringue, it's been nice
knowing you.
-[Tasha] Bake meringues low and slow.
-[Cristy] Thank God they're in.
So I'm doing mine at 110
for an hour and 45 minutes.
That's going in for an hour and a half.
[Alison] While everyone is baking
both halves of their bombes together…
[Saku] One in the oven.
[Alison] …Saku has decided
to bake hers separately.
I don't want to bake both together
so I'm making the base later.
It is a flower bonnet. There will be bees.
My bee is my son. He is Binera.
In short, we all call him bee,
the buzzing bee. [laughs]
Sometimes he's pain in the bottom
just like buzzing, er, everywhere.
Yeah. [laughs]
[Noel] Marzipan bumblebees
will buzz around Saku's flowery bombe,
and inside will be
two flavours of profiteroles,
passion fruit crème pat
and pistachio and Irish cream.
Saku, yesterday you let me down.
[Prue laughs] Let it go.
-Please let it go.
-Exactly.
-[Paul] Please let it go?
-Yes.
[Paul chuckles]
-All right.
-Saku.
-You're joking, aren't you?
-[laughing] No.
-[Paul laughing]
-[Saku] That's too early. [laughs]
Right then.
There's so much going on,
I've gotta get another bowl.
I'm rinsing the bowls already.
[Noel] With their bombes away
and the time a-ticking…
[Dan] Cannot relax,
there's no time for relaxing.
[Noel] …the bakers must multitask
if they are to create the multitude of
elements they'll need for their dessert.
Speed baking. I might finish my speed
version of sponges, meringues, mousses…
[mimics whirring]
[Josh] The strawberries off my garden
will be used for multiple things.
Got a jam base, gonna make
a strawberry mousse on the top.
[Matty] Strawberries and basil
for the compote.
Also goes into the mousse.
[Dan] Raspberry puree.
Gonna be the molten core,
so I need to get these frozen quick.
[Saku] Making a little hole at the bum.
If not, it will collapse.
Little bum hole. [laughs]
-[Alison] Hi, Tasha, how's it going?
-[Tasha] Hello.
It's okay. So I'm keeping it
simple-ish today.
I'm going plum, ginger.
-Paul, ginger. Paul, ginger.
-Yeah, you don't wanna override the--
-[both laugh]
-Plum and ginger.
Not Paul and ginger.
That'd be interesting.
I wonder what he'd taste like in a bake.
But it would look good,
but it would be sour.
[both laugh]
[Noel] Branches of pink plum blossom
will wrap around Tasha's bombe,
creating profiterole plums filled
with plum and ginger crème diplomat
and topped with plum craquelin.
[Tasha] Choux pastry is a lot
of arm strength which I don't have.
[Alison] But Tasha isn't the only baker
filling their bombe with choux pastry.
Just gonna get my bits ready
for the, erm, choux buns.
There's pressure when other people
are doing the same thing
which I'm thrilled about.
[Alison] But Cristy is hoping
to make her profiteroles stand out
by making them stand up.
So, I'm doing a little mini croquembouche.
-A mini croquembouche?
-[Cristy] Yes.
And how's the meringue fitting
over the top of that?
The lid on top sort of domes over.
[Alison] Cristy will be hoping
to spoil the judges
with a croquembouche
of summer berry crème diplomat
protruding from a bombe covered
in multi-coloured meringue kisses.
[Cristy] The kisses only take an hour.
I'm gonna make some royal icing
and construct it like that all round.
-Stick them on with royal icing.
-Yeah.
-So it'll be a spiky…
-[Cristy] Yeah.
I love it, it sounds quite modern.
You think this is gonna help
or hinder your bake?
-Are you gonna keep that on all day?
-[laughs]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
Come on, meringue.
[Dan] Mine's all cracking.
You see round the sides,
it's all come up and left it all behind.
You seem chilled out.
I'm not gonna be
if those meringues don't work.
What if these meringues don't work?
-We panic.
-Would that be the worst thing?
Yeah.
Right, you know what,
I'm gonna get 'em out.
[Saku] Oh, I'm so worried.
[Josh] They look good.
That one looks good.
Oh, he can use an oven. [laughs]
[Dan] Oh, not great, if I'm honest.
[Cristy] Oh, my God.
It's properly cracked.
Er, I feel sick.
I'm nervous.
Demoulding the spheres is… It's scary.
[Noel] A steady hand is critical.
[Tasha] Slow, slow, slow, slow, slow.
Don't rush.
[Noel] As the smallest fracture line
could result in a bombe shell explosion.
[Dan] It's a delicate little petal,
that is.
[Matty] Oh, it's cracking like a good 'un.
[inhales sharply]
[Josh] This one looks nice.
[Saku] It didn't crack.
[Dan] Very, very thin there.
It's like a meteor's hit it.
[Cristy in singsong voice]
Thank you, Lord Jesus. Ah.
[Tasha gasps]
Oh, my God.
Same's gonna happen to the others.
[sighs] Oh, my God.
[exhales] I've got one,
I've got one, haven't I?
It looks like a cave or something.
I'm not taking any chances.
I'm gonna cut it.
If two crack, then it wasn't meant to be.
[Cristy] Cracked on the inside,
not the outside.
I'm gonna weld it up
with the royal icing. [chuckles]
[Tasha laughs]
This is fine. This one's fine.
[Noel] Look at your domes. They're good.
[Matty] They're out, thankfully.
-Come on, let's show those judges.
-Yeah.
Let's go, bang.
Put that in your pipe, Hollywood.
This is the next layer on my dessert,
mascarpone and champagne filling.
[Alison] While others finish off
their dessert elements…
[Tasha] The choux needs
to get in the oven quickly.
…Saku still has half her bombe to bake.
Er, now I'm making
the second lot of meringue.
This is the base.
Oh, now I am running behind.
[Noel] You couldn't break those.
Don't touch them, Noel, don't joke.
What sort of weight could they take?
A squirrel?
-Stop it.
-A gerbil? A large otter?
Stop it.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
[exhales]
I can't worry, can't panic.
It's too fiddly for panicking,
I'm using the royal icing I made
to just stick them all on.
[Josh] Icing some tennis balls
on to here.
[Noel] You making bumblebees?
I love that guy.
-That's queen bee.
-Oh, queen bee.
-That's her crown. Come on.
-[Alison] I thought it was her lips.
-[Noel] I thought that bee was pouting.
-[laughs]
That's the storm brewing
from the south pole, that is. [laughs]
So, meringue bombes, Prue.
I do think all of them
sound absolutely delicious.
-[Paul] Comes down to that meringue.
-[Cristy] This'll strengthen it.
[Paul] Matty and Dan's got the trickiest
position. All got so many layers.
Trying to line my meringue,
the Earth's crust.
And those things are quite mousse-y.
They're mostly liquid. You don't want
anything too wet touching the meringue.
[Paul] Few of them
using the choux.
They're clever enough to put
their mixtures inside choux pastry,
-but they actually weigh a tonne.
-[Paul] Yeah.
There's danger of them collapsing.
It's quite a difficult challenge.
We wanna see good baking.
No mess-ups today.
And no talking about yesterday.
No, okay then.
-It was bad though, wasn't it?
-[laughs]
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
[Dan] Molten core of the Earth.
That'll sit in there,
my dessert should be able to sit in there.
Now worry is whether
baking time will be enough.
If I take it too early, it will crack.
[Cristy] It's cracked all the way through.
Doesn't wanna hold.
I'm just gonna have to
prop it up, aren't I?
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
-[whistles]
-I'm going as fast as I can.
[Josh] We got the look of Wimbledon here.
[Cristy] I'm gonna forget
about the croquembouche.
My health's more important
than Paul. [chuckles]
[Matty] Oh, God,
maybe I've gone a layer too high.
[inhales sharply]
[Tasha] Jesus Christ.
Ah!
[sighing] Ah, I ruined it.
All cracked.
[hisses in frustration]
Bakers, you have one minute left.
[Cristy] He's gonna expect
a croquembouche,
he's gonna lift it up
and see this. [laughs]
[Tasha] Lid's going on.
[Cristy] I think it's collapsing.
[Dan] Just waiting for it to break.
[Saku] Heartbreaking.
Bakers, your time is up.
[Tasha gasps]
Step away from your showstoppers.
[Tasha] It's not going to stay on its own.
It's just too spherical.
Well done, everyone.
Well done. I'm proud of ya.
No one's coming in on that clap, are they?
[both laughing]
[Tasha] Oh, God.
Oh, so glad it's done though.
Really tough gig, that.
That was revolting. [laughs]
[Noel] Six meringue bombes
ready to explode.
But will the judges be blown away?
It's showstopper time for our Josh.
Well, I must say, the piping is excellent
and the idea is original
and it's beautifully done.
And that is a proper dessert inside.
Now it just has to taste good.
Isn't that a little triumph?
You've got a shortcake base,
er, strawberry jam,
mascarpone and whipped cream filling,
and then a strawberry mousse on top.
[Prue] I'll tell you what,
if Wimbledon did strawberries and cream
like that, it would be fantastic.
The jam gives it
a nice strawberry acidic kick.
It's delicious. You've created
something very beautiful indeed.
-Well done, Josh.
-[Prue] Well done.
Well done, buddy.
I think the plum blossom
is so sweet, lovely.
-[Paul] Does join and it is a ball.
-[Prue] Not easy to do.
[Paul] The decoration,
I quite like on it.
-[Prue] Oh, my goodness.
-[Paul] Little bowl of buns.
-With craquelin on top.
-Craquelin's quite effective.
Inside, we've got plum and ginger
crème diplomat.
On their own,
it's a slightly acidic flavour.
Together with the meringue,
it does work beautiful.
Idea of a bombe is you eat
a bit of the meringue as well.
I like it. It's not too sweet inside.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
You know, I think the look of it
is really very good.
[Paul] It's quite
artistic, colourful. Wow.
The bombe itself is nice.
Inside, it looks a bit…
Well, I say bit, it's a lot messy.
Yeah.
[Paul] Maybe take that bit off there.
[chuckles]
Inside is strawberry and basil mousse,
pistachio crémeux,
strawberry and basil compote
and pistachio génoise sponge.
Somehow, the pistachio flavour
is too rich and heavy.
The basil, I'm not quite sure I like it
-with the strawberry.
-Okay. Yeah.
[Prue] The meringue is very good.
I think this outside is a little triumph.
-Thank you, Matty.
-Thank you.
I think the whole thing
looks really pretty.
A little bit like a beehive.
[Paul] You struggled with the base
'cause you've got several pieces…
It blasted.
It's just…
[laughs] Now it's blasted, yeah.
Not much of a bombe though.
It's just a few choux buns
sitting in the middle of a stand.
[Saku] The dark chocolate,
it is pistachio and Irish cream,
and with the white chocolate,
it's passion fruit curd.
The choux buns don't look good.
They're a bit flat.
You do get the Irish liqueur.
-Just not strong enough.
-There are elements that are good.
You just needed to do
a bit more on flavour.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
[imperceptible]
It's an amazingly
wonderfully ambitious thing
to get the entire world…
-In a meringue.
Overall, I think you created a nice shape.
There's a nice dome to that.
Going to have a quick look inside.
Oh, okay. There you go.
-[Prue] Yep. Oh, right.
-[Paul] Okay.
That's very clever.
So, it is a trifle with, erm,
chocolate génoise sponge,
orange crème patisserie,
a strawberry bavarois
and a raspberry jelly sphere
for the middle of the Earth.
[Paul] I love the layers,
you got a sharpness
to the jelly in the middle.
The sponge on the outside is delicious.
The whole thing works together lovely,
you created a lovely trifle
in the centre of the Earth.
Yeah. What's wrong with that?
Nothing. Well done.
Ah, that's great, thank you very much.
[softly] Well done.
[exhales]
Well, you're not ever going to expect me
not to like the look of that.
Colours are amazing.
Looks impressive on the outside.
[Prue] Can I say something,
a bombe is nice if it's round.
[Cristy] You know what,
we move them away now.
[Prue] And I think
it's more impressive like that.
-Looks like the bombe's gone off.
-[Prue and Cristy laughing]
-[Prue] That is a mess.
-[Paul] What is that?
It's actually profiteroles,
not a croquembouche.
And they're filled
with a crème diplomat with berry coulis.
-There's too much icing, too sweet.
-[Cristy] Okay.
But I love the filling.
It's nice and sharp.
You've let yourself down a lot
with that interior.
It's like the middle wasn't important.
Just chucked something in.
[Prue] But from the outside,
it's fantastic.
Sometimes, you do get pretty things
who are ugly on the inside.
-[all laughing]
-Oh, no.
It was tough.
I don't think I've done enough to stay in.
Being on the cusp
of getting into the quarter-finals,
I would be disappointed.
It went better
than I could have hoped for,
so I've had the biggest smile on my face.
[Josh] I was really pleased with that.
That went really, really well, didn't it?
My meringue cracked,
and they didn't get the flavour
from the profiteroles.
You are in danger. [laughs]
Well, were you blown away by the bombes?
Were they the comeback kids
after their technical?
Josh was my comeback kid.
That strawberry cake was beautiful.
It was. Nice to see Dan come back again.
You opened up the Earth's core
and you saw layers on layers…
-Pretty design.
-All beautifully concentric.
Both those guys
are in line for Star Baker.
Cristy and Saku,
one of those two will be going home.
Saku, she had no base at all.
It was literally like a cloche
over half a dozen choux buns.
I wouldn't have minded that.
The problem with Saku has been
-not enough oomph in her flavours.
-[Paul] Yes.
Where did Cristy go wrong
'cause it looked incredible?
-Looks can be deceiving.
-[Alison] True.
Style above substance,
'cause it wasn't very nice inside.
-I think I prefer style over substance.
-[Prue laughs]
-That's why you're not a judge.
-[both laugh]
Well done, bakers,
for getting through Dessert Week.
I've got the amazing job
of announcing Star Baker.
The judges really struggled with this one.
Today's Star Baker is…
Dan.
[applause]
That means I've got
the horrible and really hard job,
but the baker
who is leaving us this week is…
Saku.
[chuckles]
That's fine.
I'm so proud of myself. [laughs]
We're going to miss you so much.
I don't miss baking, but I will miss them.
It's really sad to leave them.
It's a privilege
to be a part of this lovely family.
-Well done, Dan.
-[Dan] Very close.
Thank you very much, Prue.
Much appreciated. Thank you.
Nothing between me and Josh
by the sounds of things,
and he's a phenomenal baker,
so to edge past him this week
filled me with loads of confidence,
I'm super happy.
I think my wife will be super surprised.
I genuinely thought I was going.
I'm made up. To be able to say
you're a Bake Off quarter-finalist.
I'm in the quarter-final. [laughs]
[inhales deeply]
Oh, my God.
Can't believe it at all.
To think how far we've all come
since that week one,
it's absolutely amazing.
[line ringing]
[automated voice]
Welcome to the…
She clearly wasn't expecting me to get,
to get Star Baker today, was she?
[laughs]
[closing theme music playing]